[kbn-change-history] Map `object.sequence` as long and document ordering semantics (#270637)
elastic/kibana: x-pack/platform/packages/shared/kbn-change-history/README.md

- `timestamp` (Optional `@timestamp` when the change took place — will be autogenerated if not provided)
- `objectType` (Used for querying — allows multiple object types in the same change history stream),
- `objectId` (Used for querying — uniquely identifies a kibana object),

> - `sequence` (Optional `long` — monotonic version from the primary store for ordering; see [Ordering and versioning](#ordering-and-versioning)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `sequence` (Optional `long` — monotonically increasing integer determining changes order; see [Ordering and versioning](#ordering-and-versioning)).
```

Author: Addressed in [ee49528](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/270637/commits/ee495288cb84dd210d0487565329f9b25833eba0).

All persisted documents follow the same schema (see below).

### Ordering and versioning

**Default browse order** (`getHistory` without `opts.sort`):

1. `object.sequence` (desc) when the caller supplied it
2. `@timestamp` (desc)
3. `event.id` (desc) as a tie-breaker

Without `object.sequence`, ordering falls back to `@timestamp`. That is simple and works most of the time, but clock skew or concurrent writers can occasionally show changes out of order. Product copy should not promise strict ordering unless the solution passes `sequence`.

> **`object.sequence` (optional, `long`)** holds a **solution-defined** monotonic version for the tracked object. It is **not**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**`object.sequence` (optional, `long`)** holds a **solution-defined** monotonically increasing integer determining changes order for the tracked object. This number should properly handle optimistic concurrency control, reindexing, upgrades, failovers, migrations and cluster rebuilds. 

**Good** examples:

1. Field stored in the tracked document itself and incremented every time the tracked object gets changed
2. **optimistic concurrency** on the primary index/data stream  (Saved Objects client / `if_seq_no` + `if_primary_term` on raw Elasticsearch indices) + some monotonic field surviving reindexing, upgrades, failovers, migrations and cluster rebuilds

**Bad** examples (won't work):

- Saved Object `SavedObject.version` (opaque Elasticsearch OCC metadata)
  _`version` is a base64-encoded string containing two Elasticsearch internal counters: [_seq_no, _primary_term]. These number get reset upon reindexing, upgrades, failovers, migrations and cluster rebuilds._
- Alerting `rule.revision` or other domain `revision` fields
  _It doesn't increment on every operation and and sometimes it could be reset to 1._
```

Author: Addressed in [e26f2e4](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/270637/commits/e26f2e4db0dabd59202befaac16a6fe0d6e946fa).

- Saved Object `SavedObject.version` (opaque Elasticsearch OCC metadata)
- Alerting `rule.revision` or other domain `revision` fields (unless you explicitly copy that value into `sequence`)

> - ECS `event.sequence` (ordering of events globally, not per object)

Reviewer: Total order works as well. But it's harder to achieve and isn't required in our case.

Author: Addressed in [e26f2e4](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/270637/commits/e26f2e4db0dabd59202befaac16a6fe0d6e946fa).

2. **Optimistic concurrency** on the primary index/data stream (Saved Objects client / `if_seq_no` + `if_primary_term` on raw Elasticsearch indices) plus a monotonic field surviving reindexing, upgrades, failovers, migrations and cluster rebuilds

After each successful primary write, pass that counter as `sequence` on each `log` / `logBulk` call.

**Bad** examples (won't work):

- Saved Object `SavedObject.version` (opaque Elasticsearch OCC metadata)
  _`version` is a base64-encoded string containing two Elasticsearch internal counters: [`_seq_no`, `_primary_term`]. These numbers get reset upon reindexing, upgrades, failovers, migrations and cluster rebuilds._
- Alerting `rule.revision` or other domain `revision` fields
  _It doesn't increment on every operation and sometimes it could be reset to 1._
- ECS `event.sequence` (global event ordering, not per tracked object)
  _A single global sequence can work in theory, but it is hard to maintain when many writers append to the same stream: collisions and gaps are likely without centralized allocation. Prefer a monotonic counter scoped to each tracked object (your domain’s `object.id` + `object.type`)._

> - Raw Elasticsearch `_seq_no` / `_primary_term` copied directly into `sequence` (not stable version identifiers across index lineages)

Reviewer 2: ☝️ Missing raw elasticsearch `_version` for completeness. Particularly highlighting that it does not survive reindexing by default and is not recommended where concurrency is at stake.

https://www.elastic.co/docs/reference/elasticsearch/clients/javascript/api-reference#_index

```
Versioning

Each indexed document is given a version number. By default, internal versioning is used that starts at 1 and increments with each update, deletes included.
```

Reindexing

https://www.elastic.co/docs/reference/elasticsearch/clients/javascript/api-reference#_reindex

```
By default, internal versioning is used that starts at 1 and increments with each update, deletes included.
```

Note that in theory, its possible to [recreate](https://www.elastic.co/docs/api/doc/elasticsearch/operation/operation-create) documents by defining `version_type: "external"`. Unsure of how feasible or recommended this is. Needs more investigation.

| `object.id`             | `keyword`   | Unique id of the target object in Kibana.                                   |
| `object.type`           | `keyword`   | Type of the target object (e.g. `alert`). Allows tracking multiple types in the same change history stream. |
| `object.hash`           | `keyword`   | SHA256 of the object snapshot to identify the payload.                     |

> | `object.sequence`       | `long`      | Optional monotonic version from the primary store for ordering (see [Ordering and versioning](#ordering-and-versioning)). |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `object.sequence`       | `long`      | Optional monotonically increasing integer determining changes order for the tracked object (see [Ordering and versioning](#ordering-and-versioning)). |
```

Author: Addressed in [ee49528](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/270637/commits/ee495288cb84dd210d0487565329f9b25833eba0).

});
```

### Supplying `sequence` for reliable ordering

> After a successful primary write, copy your domain's monotonic version into `sequence`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After a successful primary write, copy your domain's monotonically increasing integer into `sequence`:
```

Author: Addressed in [ee49528](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/270637/commits/ee495288cb84dd210d0487565329f9b25833eba0).

```ts

> await client.log(

Reviewer: Change logging may fail as well. Though we don't have retry mechanisms right now. It will lead to missing change entries.

With `object.sequence` determining changes order it's possible to retry safely. The only way the change entry get missing is Kibana server crash.

Most probably we should reflect it here.

Author: Addressed in [ee49528](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/270637/commits/ee495288cb84dd210d0487565329f9b25833eba0).
